---
layout: post
date: 2022-11-16
categories: [Data Security, Week 8, Firewall]
tags: [backups, data security, data recovery, backup ]
title:  "Outcome 3 -  Implement security measures to protect corporate data - Week 10"
---

##  Biometric access measures


Biometrics are rising as an advanced layer in many personal and enterprise security systems. With unique identifiers of your biology and behaviors like Fingerprint Scanning,Voice Recognition,Iris Recognition and others. This may seem foolproof but, however, biometric identity has made many cautious about its use as standalone authentication.

Modern cybersecurity is focused on reducing the risks for this powerful security solution: traditional passwords have long been a point of weakness for security systems. Biometrics aims to answer this issue by linking proof-of-identity to our bodies and behavior patterns.
Biometric identification has a growing role in our everyday security. Physical characteristics are relatively fixed and individualized — even in the case of twins. Each person’s unique biometric identity can be used to replace or at least augment password systems for computers, phones, and restricted access rooms and buildings.

Once biometric data is obtained and mapped, it is then saved to be matched with future attempts at access. Most of the time, this data is encrypted and stored within the device or in a remote server.



### Most common biometric techniques 

Fingerprint recognition and iris scanning are the most well-known forms of biometric security. However, facial recognition and (finger and palm) vein pattern recognition are also gaining in popularity. 

 - <h2>Fingerprint recognition</h2>

    Identification system based on fingerprint recognition looks for specific characteristics in the line pattern on the surface of the finger.


 - <h2>Facial recognition</h2>




 - <h2>Iris recognition</h2>
