---
layout: post
date: 2022-10-05
categories: [Data Security, Week 5, IDS]
tags: [data breach,security, HIDS, NIDS]
title:  "Outcome 2 - Use data security tools for personal devices. - Week 5"
---

## How Intrusion Detection Systems can protect your system

### What is an intrusion detection system (IDS)?

An intrusion detection system (IDS) is a system that monitors network traffic for suspicious activity and alerts when such activity is discovered.

An IDS can be contrasted with an intrusion prevention system (IPS), which monitors network packets for potentially damaging network traffic, like an IDS, but has the primary goal of preventing threats once detected, as opposed to primarily detecting and recording threats.

### How do intrusion detection systems work?

Intrusion detection systems are used to detect anomalies with the aim of catching hackers before they do real damage to a network. IDSes can be either network- or host-based. A host-based intrusion detection system is installed on the client computer, while a network-based intrusion detection system resides on the network.

An IDS may be implemented as a software application running on customer hardware or as a network security appliance. Cloud-based intrusion detection systems are also available to protect data and systems in cloud deployments.

### Different types of intrusion detection systems

- **NIDS** - A network intrusion detection system (NIDS) is deployed at a strategic point or points within the network, where it can monitor inbound and outbound traffic to and from all the devices on the network.

- **HIDS** - A host intrusion detection system (HIDS) runs on all computers or devices in the network with direct access to both the internet and the enterprise's internal network. A HIDS has an advantage over an NIDS in that it may be able to detect anomalous network packets that originate from inside the organization or malicious traffic that an NIDS has failed to detect. A HIDS may also be able to identify malicious traffic that originates from the host itself, such as when the host has been infected with malware and is attempting to spread to other systems.

## Access controls and Auditing

Both are very important to protect your computer systems.
Access controls limit access to information and information processing systems. When implemented effectively, they mitigate the risk of information being accessed without the appropriate authorisation, unlawfully and the risk of a data breach. They apply anywhere access is required to perform a business activity and should be adhered to when accessing information in any format, on any device.
For the other side, Auditing helps ensure that policies, procedures, and regulations are carried out in a manner consistent with organizational standards.

