---
layout: post
date: 2022-11-17
categories: [Data Security, Week 9, Physical Security]
tags: [backups, data security, data recovery, backup, whitelisting, blacklisting]
title:  "Outcome 3 - Physical Security - Week 9"
---

##  Common Physical Security Risks

From intrusion by former employees to the theft of data and materials or commercial burglary, most physical risks to businesses involve a lack of proper detection devices or gaps between detection and response time.
Your physical security measures may be compromised or weak, leaving the business vulnerable to physical threats. Physical security risks can include:

- Internal: Internal threats can include unstable power supply, fire, or other risks like humidity in the hardware room.
- External: External security threats include floods, lightning, and earthquakes.
- Human: Human threats can include vandalism or theft of hardware or infrastructure, intentional or accidental errors, and disruption.



#### Tailgating
Tailgating occurs when an unauthorised person follows an authorised person into a restricted area. It can simply occur as people are passing through doors and only those at the front have to swipe a card or present identification. Those at the back can simply follow-through, making it easy for unauthorised persons to gain access without difficulty.

<b>Solution</b> 
An access control system tailored to your entry points security needs can help you control how you grant and restrict access to your business premises. You can control how visitors and personnel access areas, create permissions, limit access with time schedules, and receive reports about which visitors of staff access which areas and at what times.


##### Vandalism
Vandalism is the intentional damage, defacement, or destruction of someone’s property without the owner’s consent. In some cases, it can cripple your business and significantly drain your resources.

<b>Solution</b>
A CCTV security solution can help reduce vandalism risk by alerting you when unknown people or vehicles arrive on your business premises.


##### Social engineering
Social engineering mainly involves manipulating your employees, and this can be through information gained from impersonation or taking advantage of basic human empathy to access secure networks and areas.

<b>Solution</b>
Again, an effective access control system can help combat such risks by simplifying how you grant or restrict access to your business premises. Having a security officer at all entry points can ensure you verify who gains access and why.
Raising security awareness among your employees is also vital while incorporating security policies like not holding doors for people they don’t know.


##### Theft
Your company can face risks of different kinds of theft, including theft of valuable data and equipment, sensitive information, identity theft, credit card theft, or theft of documents. 

<b>Solution</b>
Alarm systems can help you detect, CCTV systems can help assess the situation, and security personnel can respond and intervene to stop the criminal or intruder from reaching their target.
